1> The subconscious mind:
2> Think of the subconscious mind as the storage room of everything that is currently not in your conscious mind.

3> The subconscious mind stores all of your previous life experiences, your beliefs, your memories, you skills, all situations you've been through 
4> and all images you've ever seen.

5> The best way to understand the subconscious mind is to look at the example of the person who wants to learn how to drive a car. 
6> At the beginning he wouldn't be able to hold a conversation with anyone while driving as he would be focusing on the different moves involved. That's because he's still using his conscious mind to drive.

7> The subconscious mind; your Autopilot!
8> Few weeks later driving becomes a natural habit that happens automatically without needing to think about it. 
9> That person could even start using his cell phone or talking to his friends while driving.

10> This happened because the driving habit has been transferred to his subconscious mind and so the conscious mind become free. 
11> This allowed him to use it to talk in his cell phone.

12> The subconscious mind is responsible for the automatically triggered feelings and emotions that you suddenly experience upon facing a new situation.
13> If you were about to give a presentation then all the fear and anxiety feelings you might experience are in fact launched and controlled by your subconscious mind.

14> The conscious mind is, on the other hand, responsible for logic, calculations and all actions that are performed while you are conscious. 
15> The subconscious mind also controls other functions in your body like breathing and heart beats.

16> Another good example that can help you better understand the subconscious mind is the process of breathing. 
17> Before you started reading the previous line your breathing was controlled by your subconscious.

18> I want you now to try and control your breathing for one minute. You will be able to do so of course. 
19> This time it was the conscious mind that was controlling your breathing,but when you let go of your focus your subconscious mind will takeover again.